So, guys, now let us discuss in totality that how you actually access physical memory.
So in this slide, you can see that there are three devices, the CPU, amamou and the physical memory.
Now, we have already discussed that CPU generates logical addresses, logical.
That just means virtual address.
So let's say, for example, this logical address is one hundred and fifty six.
Right.
We have just chosen a random number which represent logical address.
Now, Amamou is a hardware unit which converts each logical address into physical address.
So let us say in our example, Amamou converts the logical address.
One hundred and fifty six to fifty six.
So 56 is a physical address.
Now, what is the science behind converting logical address to physical address that we will going to
discuss later when we will be discussing the concept of paging?
For now, just understand that Amamou has converted logical address to physical address.
We have arbitrarily chosen this value of 56, which represents a physical address.
Now, there is an address, Busse, between Amamou and physical memory.
This address best connect the amamou and physical memory using 32 metallic wires.
Why, there are 32 metallic wires because we are discussing computer architecture for a 32 bit systems,
right?
So for the 32 bit system, the Atlas bus will have 32 bit lines or 32 metallic wires.
Now, we have assumed that the physical address is fifty six.
The voltage levels on these metallic wires of an adverse bus is set such that physical at 56 is represented
by the equivalent binary encoding derived from the voltage levels on these 32 bit lines.
So you can see that this represents 56.
Now, 56 is a memory location of a in a physical memory.
So whatever value we set on this 32 bit address, both corresponding to that memory location in a physical
memory, is accessed because in this example, the physical address is fifty six.
Therefore, the address bus will map to a memory location whose physical address is fifty six in physical
memory.
Now, once a particular memory location in a physical memory is identified C.P.U, then issues read
or write operations to be performed on both physical memory locations.
Now, until this point, CPU has identified the memory location in the physical memory on which it needs
to perform, read or right operation.
Now, to facilitate data transfer between CPU and physical memory, there is another buzz called data
buzz.
So you can see that in this database, there are four buses, that is zero, bus one, bus two and bus
three, each bus intones, carry it metallic wires.
It means that each bus carrying eight electrical signals corresponding to a bit.
It means that each bus ride.
All right.
One bit of data from physical memory, right.
Since there are four buses, therefore, database can carry, therefore, database can carry four bites
of data from CPU main memory as well as from main memory to CPU.
So this one also carry it metallic wires, bus to also carry it, metallic wires and bus three also
carry eight metallic wires, so a total of 32 metallic wires.
So on a 32 bit system the size of Atlus bus is 32 bit lines and the size of the bus is, again, 32.
But Dateline's so you can see that you can perform, read and write operations on a physical memory
of four bytes in total in one CPU clock cycle on a physical memory.
So you can perform, read or write for bytes of data in one CPU cycle because the size of that database
is four bytes.
So you can see that in this example, CPU identified the memory location number fifty six and the physical
memory and CPU wants to read.
The value was present at address fifty six and at fifty seven.
Let's say for example CPU wants to read to bytes of data.
So whatever data is present in these memory locations, that is on memory location number 56 and 57
in physical memory.
The same data is then pulled on these database wires.
Right.
So you can see that since the CPU was interested in reading the data at memory location 56 and 57,
therefore, whatever data was present at memory, location 56 is set on the metallic wires of plus one
of the database.
And similarly, the data of the content present at memory location 57 is set on metalic Vires or bus
number two of database.
So from this diagram, you can understand that CPU can read maximum of four bytes of data from the main
memory in one CPU clock cycle.
So going by that suppose in your program, you write the following statement.
Now let us assume that long data type is of size.
It bites.
So it means that we are trying to copy it.
Bytes of data into a memory location identified by variable one.
Now, on a 32 bit system, you can perform, read and write operation of four bytes in one sweep clock
cycle.
Therefore, in order to copy it bytes of data into this memory location, CPU will have to perform right
operation and to CPU clock cycles.
Right.
So CPR will take two CPR cycles to store the data in a physical memory on a 32 bit system.
And if your system was 64 bit operating system, then CPR would have taken one CPR clock cycle in order
to perform the same operation.
So that was actually defines how many bytes of data CPU can read or write into the physical memory.
So for a 32 bit system, it is four bytes and for a 64 bit system it is Ed Bytes.
So this is how address, books and database collaborate together to facilitate communication or data
exchange between CPU and physical memory.
Now, I will ask you one question.
What is the maximum address the address book can carry?
Now, Atlas Bus has 32 bit lines.
So on each line, even if you set the high voltage level.
So the maximum value or memory location that does bus can carry is to restore the power to minus one.
It means that you can access the bite number in the physical memory whose address is maximum of tourists
to the power 32 minus one.
Now, we already know that to restore the power to do is equal to four gigabytes, so it simply means
that if you try to install physical memory greater than four GB on your computer system, it is absolutely
useless thing to do.
You can never access a memory location on your physical memory whose address is greater than to restore
the power today to minus one, it means maximum.
All four of them you can install on your 32 bit system if you try to install RAM, which is greater
than 4G in size on a little bit system.
The memory locations beyond the address to restore the power 32 minus one will never going to be used
by a CPU and it will remain unused.
So it is for this reason that today we have 64 bit systems on 64 bit system.
You can install physical memory of maximum size to restore the power 64 minus one bytes.
Now, this is absolutely huge.
So this interview question that why on a 32 bit system, you cannot install physical memory beyond size,
all four gigabytes.
So I have a little advice for you.
You must learn this diagram through of the courts in order to explain the concepts in interviews.
So you must have this diagram in your mind so that when you are asked a question, you can draw the
same diagram on a board or a paper in order to explain the concepts to the interviewer.
So I advise you to just not listen and understand the concept, but rather practice the concept by drawing
it on a piece of paper so that it will stay persistent in your mind.
And you can explain it clearly to the individual.
Many times I have realized that students knows the stuff, but they are not able to explain it because
simply the students have not practiced to how to explain the stuff to the interviewer.
So take it as an advice to practice all these concepts by drawing once on a piece of paper.